video podcasting it's not too late is
what you're saying it's definitely not
too late in fact on YouTube I would say
it's early because of a few things that
are happening this is a time to really
move because this is it might feel like
you're late to the game the game is just
getting started it's just kind of the
game just switched up
hey there welcome to this edition of
build your tribe I'm super excited to
have you here today because we're going
to talk about podcasting and YouTube and
why it is such an important time for you
to consider if you want to get more
views more listens more people to find
your podcast and you've been thinking
about starting a YouTube channel just
really expanding your impact I've got
the perfect guess for you today my guest
is Sean Cannell he is the founder and
CEO of think media he's helped thousands
and thousands of people not only start
their own YouTube channel but figure out
how to grow their business and grow
their impact by using YouTube he is a
best-selling author of YouTube Secrets
he's also one of like my favorite people
on the planet he's so funny and so real
and he really makes us stuff simple and
doable and so without further Ado Sean
Cannell hey hey so I I have to admit
that part of the reason why I want to
talk about this is because for personal
reasons my goal is to grow the podcast
both of them right and everyone has a
podcast now Gwyneth Paltrow Oprah
Winfrey you know Prince Harry like
everyone's got a podcast your mom has a
podcast everyone's got a podcast
so they're we're looking at the kind of
the same things happening in social
media where there's a huge supply and
not as much of a demand I've got to
stand out
tell me how
YouTube can help me do that yeah this is
one of the most exciting times to be
thinking about video podcasting which
would be people go what's a video
podcast it's like well haven't you seen
that there's a lot of podcasts on
YouTube and uh maybe this community
maybe has heard of Logan Paul he has
impulsive the podcast
H3 H3 are some YouTuber podcasts Lewis
Howes a school of greatness yeah that's
great it's a big video podcast
um and of course you can have a huge
majority uh maybe the minority or the
majority listening on audio but when you
do video it Taps into this whole other
platform of being able to be discovered
on YouTube but a lot of news just
dropped like there's a lot of teeth that
we got to talk about
so it's not too late is what you're
saying it's definitely not too late in
fact on YouTube I would say it's early
because of a few things that are
happening uh at YouTube yes at YouTube
specifically so last year they hired a
dedicated uh podcast somebody from
another company to lead up Podcast they
invested 500 000 in shows they secured
NPR to launch a bunch of shows and turn
them into video versions onto and they
weren't video versions before uh correct
and wow they launched youtube.com
forward slash podcasts plural that's a
URL listeners could go to just to see
that there's now kind of a page like the
Apple podcast homepage with banners on
it of shows that are being highlighted
and different curated clusters of types
of shows around different subject matter
so in other words if I'm on YouTube and
I go to forward slash podcasts I'm going
to see a kind of a different home page
yes where I'm gonna where normally my
YouTube algorithm is just like feeding
me like oh you one time watched a video
of this and we think you might watch
this now it's going to show me different
things that it's like these are things
you're going to want to listen to but
they're also video yep and it's and if
you go there you'd see maybe Dave Ramsey
talking about personal finance and you
may see
um even shows like Phil DeFranco which
is a news show that's kind of a guy that
tries to kind of play neutral on both
sides and you're like okay yeah that is
a podcast you can't you could consume
that audio Wise It's a video it's been
kind of more of a YouTuber but so a lot
of that is all happening but a lot of
new news just dropped which is the
actual functionality of
podcasts on YouTube and what it is is
that you actually can upload a podcast
optimize it with a square image so like
even just show art show art okay and you
can also attribute you can set a
playlist a YouTube playlist as a podcast
and when you do when you optimize
content properly on YouTube to be a
podcast there's now three new
discoverability options and we don't
know how good these are going to be but
this would be that new opportunity
that's just happening right now okay
there's going to be a badge that says
that this is a podcast okay there's
going to be a couple distribution
channels that are like new traffic
sources in the YouTube world of search
and discoverability for people that show
an interest in podcasts and maybe we
want to check others out wow but not a
lot of people are very fast moving when
it comes to optimizing their content
properly to tap into these features but
here's where it gets really interesting
when you do so coming down the road very
soon is your video podcast being
distributed as audio on YouTube music oh
wow and the platform Wars are YouTube
music versus Spotify versus Apple iTunes
because you have music you have podcasts
so these are all these different
ecosystems where YouTube's trying to
take the whole pie yeah they're trying
to have the video Side YouTube music if
you're a YouTube premium user some
people might be a Spotify Premium user
yeah on iTunes premium music or whatever
Apple music and so you pay 10 bucks a
month 12 bucks a month you now have ad
free YouTube videos but you have all
your music on YouTube music just like
Spotify and podcasts now but what are we
let's talk about monetization YouTube
wait a second I want to back you up for
just a second uh you said the ad free so
are the podcasts going to be ad free
they very well they could be but also
you could go to YouTube music with ads
on just like you go to Spotify with ads
on okay and so besides your own ads or
sponsored things that you're integrating
yeah what happens when YouTube and
Google incredibly robust selling to
Advertiser starts to put ads on in those
podcasts that also could be dynamic
mid-stream just like these other
platforms do so one thing is for sure
these huge Brands meta Google who owns
YouTube Spotify
they're not like playing kind they're
not like oh let's be nice like they're
trying to take market share and so
YouTube the platform itself should not
be ignored and and therefore the
opportunity is to really lean into this
is there an ideal length for a podcast
to do well on YouTube
one thing that is fascinating is a extra
long form content performs very well on
YouTube if you can build up an audience
and it's compelling I mean now let me
stop you and ask this question because
I've got my own Theory right yeah it
performs well and if you look at
podcasts in general and I've done an
analysis myself like crunching the data
and looking at the top shows in every
category the top shows in almost every
category are long they're like 45
minutes an hour plus I mean look at The
Joe Rogan Experience before right he
moved but I mean even in health in
comedy it doesn't matter the category
the longer podcasts are the ones that
are in the top however Apple to use them
as an example when they share data with
users and uh creators they they really
emphasize
um consumption you know to look at how
much of a particular podcast is the
average user consuming and a longer
podcast you're gonna have shorter
consumption
but it doesn't make sense when you look
at ranking because the shows that are
ranking the highest are these really
long shows where no one no one's
consuming all that likely very few are
consuming that all in one sitting yep um
so I have to think like you just look at
Common Sense any platform whether it's
apple or YouTube or Instagram they want
you there longer yes so I would think
that longer content is performing better
everywhere well 100 and and it's total
minutes not percentage viewed so YouTube
does show you average percentage views
so completion is great but completion of
a YouTube short is 60 seconds 10 of a
two hour podcast is 20 minutes amen so
it is total time on platform yeah that
is absolutely what winning looks like
and so yeah there's something I do think
that for
you know different is better than better
if somebody is making something extra
long and you do create a show that's
like all the news you want in 10 minutes
or less yeah that has a value
proposition too sure
um and we've also found that a lot of
times when we have longer form episodes
we cut them into maybe two parts and it
gives us also two at-bats in terms of
uploads to YouTube and even on audio and
someone could listen to both in a and
I've seen you do that as well sometimes
you just it was one long conversation so
I think that people look for a magic
number but that's true I will say this
there's two creators uh Lewis house and
Evan Carmichael are heavy on YouTube
their most viewed videos are over two
hours if you go to like their top eight
there's like for Lewis it's like one is
under two hours a lot of these two are
also compilations of him repurposing his
past podcast into clusters based on
topic right so he'll take seven guests
that talked about money and then build a
super show that's amazing we call these
content marathons and what's Wild is
their crazy lucrative on YouTube we can
make tens of thousands of dollars from
one upload by uploading super long
content the key is that it's in a niche
that people might find fascinating right
but you also we just clicked the box
that says YouTube can add multiple ad
spots so you don't just have multiple ad
spots but also if you're doing Education
Health personal finance
professional topics that maybe attract a
demo that is into something a little
more professional educational
um they that those Industries pay insane
and I usually don't Point people towards
YouTube ad Revenue but people are making
insane money with long form valuable
content on YouTube that's amazing
so that person who uh already has a
podcast so I'm going to ask you two
different questions personally already
has a podcast and they already have a
YouTube channel
their YouTube channel uh they haven't
been putting their podcast on there
should they start a separate
channel for their podcast or can they
incorporate it into their existing the
the one question that matters is
is it what the viewer's expectation is
okay is it the promise you've already
made to the viewer what if I only have
200 subscribers and then it it actually
doesn't even matter you do whatever you
want but if
um if you had some momentum and the
viewer's expectation was you're giving
me five minute cooking tutorials yeah
and now you're talking to authors of
cook books and it's not really cooking
tutorials and yeah and it's getting even
fringier away from that you're just
shifting maybe too far off brand you
could still experiment with it but if
you have made a promise to the viewer
there's no reason why on one YouTube
channel that you shouldn't deliver that
promise as a 60 second short as a six
minute YouTube video and as a 60 Minute
of deeper Rich content they can people
can pick and choose which format they
want to listen to the key is that you're
staying on promise and on brand now for
us we have our think media channel which
leans it's the best tips and tools for
building your influence with video tools
being software iron cameras and that's
kind of the tech Channel that's where we
even we just had a recent Vision meeting
where I'm like that's what we need to
stay on brand with people come to us
what's the best camera for you yeah we
launched a separate Channel called think
media podcast podcast in the name also
to kind of set expectations oh that was
smart these are conversations yeah but
also this is going to go and that's a
separate Channel separate channel it's
going to go heavier strategy and there's
other reasons to do it as well was to
start fresh from an audience that just
wants to subscribe for that and not
necessarily one-off video editing
tutorial let me ask you some questions
about production because I know the
person who's listening right now one of
the struggles for any entrepreneur is uh
I have to do more I now I have to do
more like podcasting myself included is
so easy because I don't have to be in
here in makeup I don't have to set up
lights or anything special there's no
special editing I mean I don't have to
edit a video I just upload the audio and
my podcast editor produces it right so
now let's speak to that person who's
like this is a whole other level do I
have to do video do I have to have on
guests do I have to change my format
what what am I looking at from just the
very Basics so if you do this at a basic
level
um one of my favorite examples is my
friend Carrie knew off he has a pretty
sizable leadership podcast
and he had me on his show
and we jumped on zoom and he said yes he
goes Sean welcome to the show I love
having my guests on Zoom because I just
want to see them
and it was an audio only podcast and he
goes we started to talk about YouTube we
started to talk about video and we
started to talk about video podcasting
and I said wait a minute Carrie you're
saying that you have the recordings of
every single one of the guests and his
show was actually interviewed I wouldn't
even say it's heavily interviewed based
it's entirely interview based so it
always has a guest or 99 of the time so
he goes yeah on my computer or in the
zoom Cloud I have every single
conversation I've had with my guests
same on Zoom yeah and with camera on you
know and I go carry it is irresponsible
of you to have not at least uploaded
these even if you just called it like
you know
marcusbuckingham.mp4 like I mean if you
didn't even change the time at least you
could have got seven views you wouldn't
have gotten that's a great point and so
on a basic level people are already
doing Zoom calls Zoom meetings with
their team Etc I totally respect the the
hair makeup lighting and those types of
details but if you thought about the
just what is the minimum I remember you
this funny memory I have a few you uh as
I've collabed and worked with your team
at certain times and I remember you were
talking to your team we were like guys
you could at least like put your hair up
and like and like put on like be put on
like a shirt and a jean jacket and maybe
a hat and like it doesn't take long like
seven minutes could get you like pretty
pretty far that was something you were
you were saying right yeah and uh we
were pretty relaxed that's for sure and
so uh you're like yeah step it up a
little bit and what was and so what is
the minimum you could do to just get on
camera this gives you a whole nother the
reason why it's a whole other traffic
Source there's search based
functionality there's all this news
about podcasts now and you can spice it
up a little bit what I would say is
technology does not have to be a hurdle
99 of people listening to this are
already have a webcam and a USB mic or
get that get a light connect it to your
desk webcam USB mic and you could use
zoom but Riverside stream yard I do solo
rounds so I will put in the monitor in
front of me a Google doc with the
subject matter the points I want to hit
I will talk to the lens I'll look at the
lens of my webcam I have a little bit of
a fancier camera
and I could do solo rounds and I do
what's called like local record on
stream yard yeah and that goes to the
cloud and an editor can make that spice
that up a little bit yeah even if you
just uploaded it as is like hey welcome
to the podcast and then trim like the
ends or don't even trim the ends turn it
on turn it off upload it and then use
that same thing for audio do you like
Riverside better than or Riverside
stream yard
um uh Squad cast I like stream yard the
best because it also is a really easy to
multi-stream
to Facebook and YouTube at the same time
yeah and record your podcast we do
internal stuff we'll go into our private
Facebook group it's kind of like the
One-Stop shop and it's so easy to use
put up banners make the show kind of
Almost Do like we use it for webinars
web classes I think I know your answer
to this next question
um but I'll ask it anyways
so it it at least putting an audio only
with just a square image that's my show
art
I mean if that's like the very bottom
Basics that's better than nothing it'd
be in terms of Discovery it beats a poke
in the eye yeah it beats a kick in the
pants
what about someone who's like I I picked
podcasting because I have a face for
podcasts and I'm not interested in ever
going on camera
um can they could they use uh stock
footage or other imagery I mean I'm not
needed I think that again if you would
did just do show art I wouldn't do
stalking I don't think you need to do
anything else there is the whole vtuber
thing that's pretty Niche but that'd be
that'd be a virtual Avatar oh that that
tracks to your face and whatnot so you
actually are showing up your eyes your
face expressions she's a robot people
yeah it's changed people change like I
don't know I think that
um I look around the world at our
students and and people in the community
and people have collaborated with
there's people of all shapes sizes ages
ethnicities backgrounds
um and
you know they would maybe say they don't
have a face for video that are just
crushing it I think that confidence is
much more of an inner game and if you're
bringing value and and what's
interesting is Again by just going on
zoom and having a zoom conversation and
then DJing that out onto YouTube and
then stripping the audio what can happen
is for Kerry newaw for example for a
year or two his YouTube didn't do great
but it grew to five thousand ten
thousand twenty thousand subscribers
because he had some good guests and so I
mean it depends on your vision are you
doing solo rounds are you having guests
yeah you know is it based off of authors
coming on when they launched so do you
know much about the way people
um consume podcast content like I find
myself personally a few podcasts I
listen to on YouTube I will glance at
the camera a little bit I mean I should
say the screen right yeah I glance at
the screen a little bit but I I don't
need to watch it I can just play it when
100 so with Instagram we we know
statistically people watch it on mute
and it's got to be really captivating
and they feel like they're missing
something where they unmute it to play
it otherwise they're just reading
captions uh what do we know about
YouTube well you know I'll turn on a
video podcast on my Smart TV while we're
cooking dinner okay so it is kind of
that it's it's like you might turn on
the news while you're going through your
evening routine so for example that's
and then I will turn it on my phone now
this is something they also mentioned as
they were rolling out the podcast
features you have to pay for YouTube
premium to be able to listen to YouTube
with your screen locked
oh and so I see what they're doing they
might never change that uh once they
really lean heavier into the podcast
because you can lock your screen on
Spotify you're just going to get served
ads yeah but so I I I wait I'm not
served ads on Spotify if
um because I have Spotify Premium but
that's because you have Spotify Premium
yeah okay okay so on YouTube you would
also just be served ads but your screen
would be locked so that was maybe a
feature initially to get more people to
do premium they may change it punchline
is I'm a YouTube premium user so YouTube
is my number one source of listening to
podcasts even if they're also on audio
here's another fact YouTube is already
as we speak the largest podcast platform
it's already bigger than Spotify crazy
big by consumption yeah and I recently
did some research and that's the reason
why I was like whole you know wait we've
got to change everything because that's
where people are discovering podcast now
is on YouTube that's where they're
discovering even and so that leads me to
my next question don't forget what
you're about to say but um is my goal to
get discovered on YouTube and drive
people to Apple Spotify or is my goal to
keep them on YouTube it is to keep them
on YouTube I think you want to respect
each platform moving people from
platforms and social media in general is
kind of a bad goal it's rare it's not a
bad thing to educate like on Instagram I
would educate and let people know
there's maybe a new podcast you want to
listen to or YouTube video and I could
track this by my story swipe ups for
example it's it's typically a pretty
small percentage
um compared to the people who view the
stories as people who click on the link
but letting them know that something of
value exists somewhere else is not a bad
thing to do but if you cannibalize your
audience like if you're well and also
Instagram is not competing with my
podcast because two different formats I
wouldn't tell people on like and by the
way if you're on audio make sure to go
to the YouTube video that's my question
um and there has been times when I've
been aware to say hey I would love your
feedback and other than leaving a review
the only way for you to give me your
feedback is if you go to the YouTube
version and leave us a comment okay and
I've done that maybe twice in 200
episodes so but that being said this is
interesting because speaking of
cannibalizing your audience when you're
a podcaster you're on this Chase of
downloads how can I get you know oh we
just hit a million downloads or whatever
the funny thing is we started with a
video podcast as we should me being a
video guy or whatever and and also
seeing kind of into the future that this
was where things were going our podcast
is only two years old or two and a half
years old and so Joe Rogan or whatever
this has been happening you know all
that to say is you I think you have to
be comfortable that like our downloads
have suffered because probably half or
more of our community listens on YouTube
so I think respecting the viewer we're
living in a world this might feel
overwhelming but buckle your seatbelt
that you should commit to Distributing
your content properly to where people
want to consume it and be okay like we
use Buzz Sprout you might have other
tools to just upload the one audio file
and then hit audible Spotify right
Google use Lipson uh and so libsyn does
the same thing so I mean again who who's
listening to podcasts on Audible it
gives you the percentages like Spotify
and apple are the biggest right and then
there's other ones they start getting
pretty fractional but nevertheless we're
respecting we're using those services to
go to all the places if somebody wants
to be on YouTube giving them that
opportunity and that might be
one big mistake that I'm certain
probably everybody listening to this
podcast is making is they are projecting
their personal consumption habits and
preferences onto viewers and listeners a
thousand percent yeah it happens all the
time you just think oh I'm not even that
active on YouTube so why would I even
post there right like that that doesn't
even make sense my people or my avatar
or my lifer would never that's not
that's not what I do so it's not what
they do right and that's that is a major
myth that's holding people back I love
that because it's there's a whole
different world of your lifer that lives
on YouTube and they don't you know you
want to reach people where they are and
then also you're not trying to disrupt
them and get them to move like they like
their neighborhood they like their
Community they want you they're like oh
cool you opened up they don't want to
drive across town to eat at the
restaurant that's one city over they
want to go to the local spot so I think
what's encouraging about this
conversation is yeah there's going to be
entrepreneurs out there who are like
this is just so much more work but not
it doesn't have to be like it literally
can be as simple as your show art and
upload the file like literally like you
said I mean I think that's that's the
takeaway for me and not everyone has to
do like a full-blown production they're
in a studio multiple camera angles you
know all getting the high quality guests
all those things so just start where you
are yeah don't overwhelm yourself you
know you and I talk about burnout all
the time I don't want you guys to burn
out and invest in someone who can help
you figure out how to do this like the
the amount of time that people like us
spend trying to figure this out when
someone's already done it for you I mean
that's why I go to you and and I would
love for anyone who's interested in
learning more about like how to master
YouTube how to how to grow your business
using YouTube is to join one of your
free live challenges right yes yeah we
have a training that will help people
figure all this stuff out because I'm
just reading some of the stats from
people who went through your last one
one of the gals said their account had a
13x Improvement just from doing a few
days of your challenge so I'm excited
about that 168 growth in just a few days
of doing the challenge you guys can join
for free by going to chalene.com forward
slash think as in think media
chalene.com forward slash think Sean
thank you so much for being here on
build your tribe thanks for pouring into
me and um this platform obviously it's a
podcast platform we video recorded this
this could very well be our first build
your tribe uh video podcast yeah I mean
it's an honor and thank you so much for
having me super grateful and excited for
this opportunity this is a time to
really move because this is it might
feel like you're late to the game the
game is just getting started it's just
kind of the game just switched up and so
I'm excited for people to lean in and so
I'm going to beg you to subscribe and
and smash the like button and leave a
comment all the things that they say
you're supposed to do on YouTube because
it's my goal to be brief to be bright to
make it fun and then be done
we're not done we're just getting
started we'll see you soon
foreign